=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 #1 Roman numerals

=over 4

Write a script to encode/decode Roman numerals. For example, given Roman numeral
CCXLVI, it should return 246. Similarly, for decimal number 39, it should return
XXXIX. Checkout L<wikipedia page|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roman_numerals>
for more information.

=back

In the Wikipedia I learned that there are two different notations for Roman
numerals: additive and subtractive.  They differ in how they render some
numbers, like these:

  +--------+----------+-------------+
  | Arabic | Additive | Subtractive |
  +--------+----------+-------------+
  |    4   |    IIII  |   IV        |
  |    9   |      IX  |   VIIII     |
  |   19   |  XVIIII  |   XIX       |
  |   90   |      XC  |   LXXXX     |
  +--------+----------+-------------+

My solution (ch-1.pl) accepts a list of arabic or roman numerals as arguments,
detects in which system they are and converts them to the other system. The
convertion from arabic to roman always uses the additive notation, but the
convertion from roman to arabic hopefully understands both notations.

In particular, this means that my solution does not fully comply with the
specification, because it asks that 39 should be converted to XXXIX, which is in
subtractive notation. My script converts 39 to XXXVIIII. Like this:

  $ ./ch-1.pl CCXLVI 246 XXXIX 39
  CCXLVI == 246
  246 == CCXXXXVI
  XXXIX == 39
  39 == XXXVIIII

=head1 #2 Ranking

=over 4

Write a script to find Jaro-Winkler distance between two strings. For more
information check L<wikipedia
page|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaro%E2%80%93Winkler_distance>.

=back

I found it hard to fully grasp the Definition Section in the English wikipedia
page. Fortunately, the L<French
page|https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distance_de_Jaro-Winkler> has more examples
which allowed me to get going, although it seems to be confounding the Jaro
Distance with the Jaro Similarity.

I'm not sure about the correctness of my solution. At least, it calculates
correctly the three examples in the French page.
