=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 #1 Van Eck's sequence

=over 4

Write a script to generate Van Eck’s sequence starts with 0. For more
information, please check out wikipedia
L<page|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Van_Eck%27s_sequence>. This challenge was
proposed by team member Andrezgz.

=back

I wrote two solutions for this challenge: one recursive and one iterative.

The recursive solution is a little easier to grasp, I think, because it's a more
direct expression of the sequence's definition. But even using memoization it's
33 times slower than the iterative version.

  $ ./ch-1-recursive.pl 10
  0
  0
  1
  0
  2
  0
  2
  2
  1
  6

  $ ./ch-1-iterative.pl 10
  0
  0
  1
  0
  2
  0
  2
  2
  1
  6

=head1 #2 Postal Codes

=over 4

Using only the official postal (2-letter) abbreviations for the 50 U.S. states,
write a script to find the longest English word you can spell?  Here is the list
of U.S. states abbreviations as per wikipedia
L<page|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_U.S._state_abbreviations>. This
challenge was proposed by team member Neil Bowers.

=back

This was an easy one. More so because I could use te L<Locale:US> module to grok
the US Postal Codes.

But I was dumbfounded when I ran it and saw the result:

  $ ./ch-2-one.pl
  Campinas

Campinas is the name of the city where I live, in Brazil. But I don't have a
clue what is it doing in an English dictionary! :-)

After having sent my solutions it downed on me that there could be more than one
"largest" word in the dictionary. So, I implemented a second version which
prints all of them:

  $ ./ch-2-all.pl
  Campinas
  Concorde
  Ganymede
  Mandarin
  Victoria
  calamine
  complain
  mainland
  malarial
  mandarin
  mascaras
  memorial
  moorland

=head1 #extra US Traversal

Neil Bowers blogged about this challenge saying that the second problem wasn't
exactly the one he proposed. He explained what he actually had in mind in a
L<blog post|http://neilb.org/2019/06/24/additional-challenge-14.html>.

Basically, he wants to know what is the largest English word that can be made
using only the initials if US states, beginning in any of them and following
only adjacent states. He offered a JSON data structure in a GitHub Gist
containing the ajdacency and initials of the states.

Using the Linux dictionary in F</usr/share/dict/words> my script tells me that
the word is "fatal":

  $ ./ch-extra.pl
  fatal (Florida => Alabama => Tennessee => Arkansas => Louisiana)
